1. Explain what is a cluster and what is a hadoop cluster

Clusters are group of systems taht performs a specific task which will act as a single system.In a computer system, a cluster is a group of
servers and other resources that act like a single system and enable high availability and, in some cases, load balancing and parallel
processing. 

A Hadoop cluster is a special type of computational cluster designed specifically for storing and analyzing huge amounts of unstructured 
data in a distributed computing environment.one machine will be name node and other machines will be job tracker.the rest will act as data
node and task tracker.And they are mainly used for boosting the speed of the process.



2.What is meant by a Rack and explain the rack arrangement in a hadoop cluster

        Rack is a place where all the nodes will be arranged.And a rack can store upto 30-40 nodes together.And with the help of a switch the 
 racks can be connected together in a network.And the main purpose of rack is to minimize the network traffic.for the process of
writing and reading files namenode will pick the node which are closer in a same rack.because when the nodes are of same rack then 
 transmission will be more efficient than the nodes in different racks.
 
        Name node will have the reack information by by mainataining rack id's of each node.one can place replica in a rack.by placing
 replica losing of data can be minimized when the node fails by using the bandwidth of teh node.and there is a restriction than
not more than one replica can be placed in asingle node and not more than two in a rack.by defaul hadoo installation will assume that 
all nodes belong to a same rack.
        By default, data is replicated to two other places in the cluster. A pipeline is built between the three DataNodes that make up 
the pipeline. The second DataNode is a randomly chosen node on a rack other than that of the first replica of the block. This is to 
increase redundancy.The final replica is placed on a random node within the same rack as the second replica. The data is piped from the 
second DataNode to the third.

          After the write process have been completed,the packets are sent from third node

To ensure the write was successful before continuing, acknowledgment packets are sent from the third DataNode to the second, From the 
second DataNode to the first And from the first DataNode to the client.This process occurs for each of the blocks that makes up the file.
For every block, by default, there is a replica on at least two racks. When the client is done writing to the DataNode pipeline and has 
received .Acknowledgements, it tells the NameNode that the write has completed. The NameNode then checks that the blocks are at least 
minimally replicated before responding.
